Date,Article,Summary,Source,Tag,link,Content
2024-09-05,"These middle-class jobs are shrinking, and could one day disappear
","This CBS article highlights that ""dozens of occupations that collectively employ hundreds of thousands of Americans in decent-paying jobs are likely to shrink over the next decade, according to recent government data. These jobs face a range of challenges, from the impact of artificial intelligence to changing consumer habits that will result in fewer workers needed to fill jobs. All together, these generally middle-class professions — which pay from $40,000 on the low end to more than $100,000 a year — are forecast to shed more than 600,000 jobs by 2033, figures from the Department of Labor's Bureau of Labor Statistics show.""
",CBS,Labor Market,https://www.cbsnews.com/news/middle-class-jobs-shrinking-office-clerk-computer-programmer-by-2033/,"These middle-class jobs are shrinking, and could one day disappear - CBS News
Latest
U.S.
World
America Decides
Election 2024
Election Updates
Senate Election Results
House Election Results
Politics
Entertainment
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Crime
Sports
Essentials
Local News
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
Live
CBS News 24/7
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
48 Hours
60 Minutes
Shows
48 Hours
60 Minutes
America Decides
CBS Evening News
CBS Mornings
CBS News Mornings
CBS Reports
CBS Saturday Morning
The Daily Report
The Dish
Eye on America
Face the Nation
Here Comes the Sun
Person to Person
Sunday Morning
The Takeout
The Uplift
Weekender
CBS News Investigates
CBS Village
Podcasts
In Depth
Newsletters
Download Our App
CBS News Team
Executive Team
Brand Studio
Paramount Shop
Paramount+
Join Our Talent Community
RSS Feeds
A Moment With...
Innovators & Disruptors
Economy 4.0
MoneyWatch
Managing Your Money
Your Taxes
Retirement
Watch CBS News
MoneyWatch
These middle-class jobs are shrinking, and could one day disappear
By
Aimee Picchi
Edited By
Alain Sherter
September 4, 2024 / 2:21 PM EDT
/ CBS News
U.S. economy may be slowing down
Signs show U.S. economy could be slowing down as unemployment rate rises
03:39
Dozens of occupations that collectively employ hundreds of thousands of Americans in decent-paying jobs are likely to shrink over the next decade, according to recent government data.
These jobs face a range of challenges, from the impact of artificial intelligence to changing consumer habits that will result in fewer workers needed to fill jobs. All together, these generally middle-class professions — which pay from $40,000 on the low end to more than $100,000 a year — are forecast to shed more than 600,000 jobs by 2033, figures from the Department of Labor's Bureau of Labor Statistics show.
The projections highlight the shifting nature of the labor market, which overall is projected to add 6.7 million new jobs through 2033, the BLS said in an August 29
report
. But even as employment continues to grow in the U.S., winners and losers are set to emerge, with experts pointing to growth in careers that will require postsecondary training or education, such as professional certificates or college degrees.
""There are many types of jobs that will disappear""
Most shrinking middle-class jobs only require a high school degree to enter the field, with experts noting that better-paying careers that are growing now generally require higher levels of education.
""It's the evolution of the world of work,"" noted Nicole Smith, chief economist at Georgetown University's Center on Education and the Workforce. ""There is a transitioning happening in the labor market, with many new jobs requiring postsecondary credentials.""
She added, ""There are many types of jobs that will disappear."" But workers that remain in these occupations will likely have the skills to adapt to new technology, such as artificial intelligence or other forms of automation, she added.
To be sure, such shifts are nothing new. The American labor market is perpetually changing, with the U.S. largely transitioning from an agricultural and manufacturing economy in the 19th and early 20th centuries into today's service-based economy. But periods of change can be painful for workers, who are often caught unprepared or unable to move into new professions.
Among the top losers are likely to be people working in entry-level office jobs, such as clerks who answer telephones, schedule appointments or file paperwork, according to the Labor Department. This occupation is forecast to shed 6% of its employees by 2033 — a loss of nearly 150,000 jobs — representing a continuation of job losses that
began years ago
due to changes in technology and automation.
""Many clerks will struggle to transition to new jobs, especially if they lack the necessary skills for higher-paying or more technical roles that are in higher demand,"" ZipRecruiter chief economist Julia Pollak told CBS MoneyWatch.
Demand is also projected to dwindle for computer programmers — once viewed as a ticket to a good-paying career — with the BLS forecasting the occupation will shed 10% of its workers by 2033. The main reason: Automation is making coders more efficient, which means employers will require fewer programmers over time.
Even so, many STEM-related jobs are also forecast to surge, with the BLS projecting that the economy will add more than 300,000 new software developers in the next decade.
Education required
About 15.2 million new middle-class jobs will be created through 2031, according to a July
report
from Georgetown's Center on Education and the Workforce, which defines these roles as paying at least $43,000 annually.
But the lion's share of those new jobs will be held by workers with postsecondary education, including a bachelor's degree, associates degree or a training certificate, the researchers noted. Some good jobs will be still available to people with only high school diplomas, but these will be focused in blue-collar jobs such as transportation and construction, Georgetown found.
At the same time, many Americans are
questioning the value of a college degree
, with more people saying they don't feel the cost is worth it. Only about 1 in 4 Americans say a bachelor's degree is necessary to secure a good-paying job, according to a March
survey
from the Pew Research Center.
Still, Georgetown's analysis finds it will likely get harder to secure a good job without some sort of additional educational attainment beyond high school.
""There is pushback against everyone having a bachelor's degree,"" Smith noted. But, she added, ""The trouble comes when we say no degree is required at all.""
Where middle-class jobs are growing
While dozens of fields offering decent pay are likely to shed workers over the next decade, there are plenty of occupations where demand for skilled workers is expected to surge. Many of them will require postsecondary credentials, from bachelor's degrees to apprenticeships.
For instance, the CHIPS and Science Act is resulting in billions invested in
new semiconductor plants
in the U.S. Those facilities are expected to hire tens of thousands of workers, but many of these jobs will require specialized training, unlike many manufacturing jobs from earlier eras.
""They require you to sit down in a community college for six months to a year to be able to man those machines,"" Smith said. ""You don't walk out of high school with those skills.""
More from CBS News
How much is the vice president paid?
What one stock market gauge is predicting about the presidential race
Here's how Harris and Trump's tax plans would impact your taxes
Here's how much Kamala Harris is worth — it isn't just from politics
In:
Employment
Education
Aimee Picchi
Aimee Picchi is the associate managing editor for CBS MoneyWatch, where she covers business and personal finance. She previously worked at Bloomberg News and has written for national news outlets including USA Today and Consumer Reports.
Twitter
© 2024 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.
More from CBS News
How much is the vice president paid?
What one stock market gauge is predicting about the presidential race
Here's how Harris and Trump's tax plans would impact your taxes
Here's how much Kamala Harris is worth — it isn't just from politics
Copyright ©2024 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Your Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
About
Advertise
Closed Captioning
CBS News Store
Site Map
Contact Us
Help
Quotes delayed at least 15 minutes.
Market data provided by
ICE Data Services
.
ICE Limitations
. Powered and implemented by
FactSet
. News provided by The Associated Press.
Legal Statement
.
facebook
twitter
instagram
youtube
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue
Be the first to know
Get browser notifications for breaking news, live events, and exclusive reporting.
Not Now
Turn On
Your Privacy Choices
As described in our
Privacy Policy
, we process personal information to inform which ads you see on our services and disclose certain personal information in connection with advertising our services to you on third-party sites and for other ad-related purposes.
If you live in certain U.S. states (e.g., California, Colorado, Connecticut, Montana, Oregon, Texas, Utah and Virginia), some of these activities may be considered “sales” or “sharing” of your personal information, or “processing” of your personal information for “targeted advertising” purposes (as each term is defined under applicable state privacy laws), and you may have the right to opt out of these activities. Please visit the
Additional Information: US States section
of our Privacy Policy for more information about your rights and our privacy practices.
If you would like to exercise this opt-out right, please follow the instructions below:
Email Address
To exercise your opt-out rights (as described above) in connection  with the email address you provided to us (such as through account registration, newsletters or marketing subscriptions) please submit your request
here
.
Device Information
To opt out of our use of personal information associated with a device that may be considered “sales,” “sharing” or “targeted advertising” move the toggle to the left, uncheck the box, or otherwise select your preferences. You will need to renew this choice in each Paramount Service you visit, if you clear your browser cookies, or if you return to this Paramount Service using a different browser or device.
Essential
These cookies are essential for the proper functioning of our Services. Essential cookies cannot be switched off in our systems. You can set your device to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the Service will not work.
Allow Sale, Sharing, or Targeted Advertising
Allow Sale, Sharing, or Targeted Advertising
Please make sure you click on the Save Settings button at the bottom or otherwise confirm your opt-out choice.
If you are in California or Colorado and have enabled the Global Privacy Control signal, we will treat this as a request to opt-out of “sales,” “sharing” and “targeted advertising” for device information. For more information about how to use the Global Privacy Control signal, please see
here
.
For instructions on how to stop receiving marketing emails from us, please see
here
.
Back Button
Cookie List
Search Icon
Filter Icon
Clear
checkbox label
label
Apply
Cancel
Consent
Leg.Interest
checkbox label
label
checkbox label
label
checkbox label
label
Save Settings
Your Privacy Choices"
