Date,Article,Summary,Source,Tag,link,Content
2024-09-06,"The Hot Labor Market Has Melted Away. Just Ask New College Grads.
","This NYT article says that ""for much of the last three years, employers were fighting one another for workers. Now the tables have turned a bit. Few employers are firing. Layoff rates remain near record lows. But fewer employers are hiring. That has left job seekers, employed or unemployed, competing for limited openings. And younger, less experienced applicants — even those with freshly obtained college degrees — have been feeling left out.""
",NYT,Labor Market,https://www.nytimes.com/2024/09/05/business/economy/jobs-college-graduates-unemployment.html,"Job Hunting Is a Challenge for Recent College Grads - The New York Times
Skip to content
Skip to site index
Search & Section Navigation
Section Navigation
SEARCH
Economy
SUBSCRIBE FOR $1/WEEK
Log in
Thursday, November 7, 2024
Today’s Paper
SUBSCRIBE FOR $1/WEEK
Federal
Reserve Meeting
Fed Cuts Rates Again
What Rate Moves Mean for You
Why Mortgage Rates Are Rising
Trump and the Fed
Advertisement
SKIP ADVERTISEMENT
Supported by
SKIP ADVERTISEMENT
The Hot Labor Market Has Melted Away. Just Ask New College Grads.
Unemployment is still low, but job seekers are competing for fewer openings, and hiring is sluggish. That’s a big turnaround from recent years.
Listen to this article · 7:30 min
Learn more
Share full article
408
Baily Hays, a 2023 graduate of Pepperdine University, spent four months of this year unemployed, in what she described as a “grueling process.”
Credit...
Chona Kasinger for The New York Times
By
Talmon Joseph Smith
Sept. 5, 2024
For much of the last three years, employers were fighting one another for workers. Now the tables have turned a bit. Few employers are firing. Layoff rates remain near record lows. But fewer employers are hiring.
That has left job seekers, employed or unemployed, competing for limited openings. And younger, less experienced applicants — even those with freshly obtained college degrees — have been feeling left out.
A spring survey of employers by the
National Association of Colleges and Employers
found that hiring projections for this year’s college graduating class were below last year’s. And it
showed that finance, insurance and real estate organizations
were planning a 14.5 percent decrease in hiring this year, a sharp U-turn from its 16.7 percent increase last year.
Subscribe to The Times
to read as many articles as you like.
Talmon Joseph Smith
is a Times economics reporter, based in New York.
More about Talmon Joseph Smith
A version of this article appears in print on
Sept. 6, 2024
, Section B, Page 1 of the New York edition with the headline: A Hot Labor Market? College Grads Disagree.
.
Order Reprints
|
Today’s Paper
|
Subscribe
See more on:
Federal Reserve (The Fed)
Read 408 Comments
Share full article
408
Advertisement
SKIP ADVERTISEMENT
Comments
408
The Hot Labor Market Has Melted Away. Just Ask New College Grads.
Skip to Comments
The comments section is closed.
      To submit a letter to the editor for publication, write to
letters@nytimes.com
.
Site Index
Site Information Navigation
©
2024
The New York Times Company
NYTCo
Contact Us
Accessibility
Work with us
Advertise
T Brand Studio
Your Ad Choices
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Site Map
Canada
International
Help
Subscriptions
Enjoy unlimited access to all of The Times.
See subscription options"
