Date,Article,Summary,Source,Tag,link,Content
2024-09-19,"Weekly applications for US jobless benefits fall to the lowest level in 4 months
","""The number of Americans applying for unemployment benefits fell to their lowest level in four months last week. Jobless claims slid by 12,000, to 219,000, for the week of Sept. 14, the Labor Department reported Thursday.""
",ABC,Labor Market,https://abcnews.go.com/Business/wireStory/weekly-applications-us-jobless-benefits-fall-lowest-level-113837720,"Page Unavailable - ABC News
ABC News
Video
Live
Shows
Elections
538
Shop
Log In
Stream on
Oops!
Page unavailable.
This page either does not exist or is currently unavailable.
From here you can either hit the ""back"" button on your browser to return to the previous page, or visit the
ABCNews.com Home Page
. You can also search for something on our site below.
STATUS CODE: 404
ABC News Network
About Nielsen Measurement
Children's Online Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Interest-Based Ads
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Your US State Privacy Rights
©
2024
ABC News
Notice of Right to Opt Out of Sale/Sharing
Some states provide residents (or, in some cases, their authorized agents) with the right to opt out of “targeted advertising,” “selling,” or “sharing” of personal information. Please visit
Your US State Privacy Rights
, including the
Your California Privacy Rights
section, for more information about your rights and our privacy practices.
Manage Consent Preferences
Technically Necessary
Always Active
These cookies are necessary for our services to function and cannot be switched off in our systems. They are usually only set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in, accessing, searching, or discovering content, or filling in forms. You can set your browser to block, or alert you about, these cookies, but some parts of the site will not then work.
Selling, Sharing, Targeted Advertising
Selling, Sharing, Targeted Advertising
We may use personal information to support “targeted advertising,” “selling,” or “sharing,” as defined by applicable privacy laws, which may result in third parties receiving your personal information.
You or your legally authorized agent can move the toggle above to the left to opt out of these activities on this digital property consistent with applicable law.
Please note that, because these activities are based on online cookies, your opt-out choice is specific to this property. If you access other digital properties of the Walt Disney Family of Companies, you will need to make your election for each. Also, if you clear your cookies on this browser or use another browser or device, you may need to opt out again on this property.
In addition to the above toggle, you may choose to provide the information requested in this
opt-out form
, which may enable us to take action on your opt-out election more broadly than just on this digital property.
You may also choose to enable online, where available, a universal tool that automatically communicates your opt-out preferences, such as the Global Privacy Control (“GPC”). We will process the GPC signal as a request to opt out.
If you opt out, you may continue to see advertising, including ads that may be based on personal information processed before you opted out.
You also may have rights to opt out from certain third parties selling and sharing your personal information. You will need to separately exercise your opt-out rights with regard to each, which you may do through this
IAB opt-out list
. You may also wish to use other available online tools to limit various types of interest-based advertising or tracking. To learn more, visit
""Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information"" and ""Targeted Advertising"" Opt-Out Rights
.
Back Button
Performance Cookies
Search Icon
Filter Icon
Clear
checkbox label
label
Apply
Cancel
Consent
Leg.Interest
Switch Label
label
Switch Label
label
Switch Label
label
Confirm My Choices"
